
克格鲁曼(PK)：川普对中国的策略在正确的轨道上吗
ref: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/07/opinion/trade-trump-china.html

Is It Possible Trump Is on the Right Track With China?
Paul Krugman responds to reader questions about the lasting effects of Trump’s trade wars.
PK对读者的回答

“Trump’s trade war is losing, not gaining, support,” Paul Krugman wrote this week in his column “Why Is Trump a Tariff Man?” So why does the president avoid making the deals that might end this perpetual state of economic uncertainty? In a word, freedom.
“Tariffs let him exercise unconstrained power, rewarding his friends and punishing his enemies,” Krugman continued.
Readers had questions: Other than tariffs, how could the United States encourage other countries to adopt better trade practices? What’s the effect on foreign policy relations? Could electing a new administration reverse damage?
Any silver lining is a long way off, according to Krugman. “To really get back on track, we’d need a defeat — not just of Trump but also of Trumpism, which would take multiple elections,” he wrote in response to one reader.
川普的贸易战正在损失而不是获益.

PK在nytimes的专栏“为什么川普是个关税人”说这也是为什么川普不愿意达成协议来结束经济的不确定，简而言之，这让他更自由。关税让他实践这种没有限制的权利，并奖赏朋友，惩罚敌人。
读者问题：除了关税，美国有方法让其他国家更好就行贸易实践？如果有，对国际关系有什么影响？能否选出一个新政府来反转这种损害？

答：任何银边x(silver lining)都是一个长期过程，如果要回到原来的轨道上，我们需要一个defeat，不仅仅是因为川普本身，而是因为川普主义。这可能需要好几次的选举才能回到轨道上。

Vitor, Greensboro, N.C.: I fully agree that tariffs are bad, there are no winners. However, these tariffs can also be of some use to control unfair trade practices (labor, environment and other issues). Other than tariffs, how could we influence other countries to adopt better trade and industrial practices?
Paul Krugman: It’s O.K. to link trade policy to other goals, as long as it’s transparent and consistent with a rules-based system. The North American Free Trade Agreement actually contains labor-rights conditions, although they haven’t been well enforced.
In the past, I’ve supported tariffs to counter Chinese currency manipulation — which was a real issue circa 2010, but isn’t now — and carbon tariffs in support of climate policy if we ever do impose carbon taxes or cap and trade here. Basically, the threat of tariffs can be used to induce other countries to play by the rules; but we can’t do that unless we ourselves are playing by the rules!
Vitor：我完全同意关税是坏的选择，而且没有赢家。但是关税能够有效控制不公平的贸易（劳动力，环境和其他）。除了关税，我们还有其他方法来让其他国家采取更好的贸易和工业实践？
PK：把贸易和其他目标联系在一起还算可以，随着这些变得大家熟知。北美自贸协定包含劳动力条件，虽然并没强制。
在过去，我是支持把中国列为货币操纵国，比如在2010年的确是个问题。但现在并不是，碳稅...x, 基本上来讲，关税威胁也会强迫其他国家按照规则行事，但我们不能那样做除非我们自己也是按照这个规则在行事。

Meggan Dissly, Paris: All of the business people I know appreciate that Trump is standing up to China — the first president to do so — and they approve. Is it possible that he is on the right track as far as China is concerned but completely off base with other countries like Canada, France and Brazil?
Krugman: None of the businesspeople I know think that. China is a bad actor in some ways, especially in not respecting intellectual property and arguably in de facto subsidizing some industries. But Trump isn’t taking on China over those issues, and hasn’t even made any clear demands.
He also hasn’t rallied other countries to join America in pressing China to change. Instead, he’s picking fights with everyone. So even if you think China should be confronted, Trump is doing it wrong.
Meggan：我知道的所有的商人都很感激川普站在中国的对立面，第一位这样做的总统，他们都很支持。有没有可能川普在正确的轨道上，不仅在中国而且在加拿大法国以及巴西？
KP：就我所知没有商人持有你那种观点。中国在一些方面是扮演了一个坏的角色，比如知识产权和给企业补助。但是川普并没有在这些方面针对中国x，并且没有挑清楚。
他也没有联合其他国家一起向中国施压。相反，川普选择向其他所有人开战。因此，即使你认为需要面对[制裁？]中国，川普也做错了。

Michael Wilson, Boulder, Colo.: Peter Navarro (assistant to the president and director of the Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy) makes the claim that Americans are not incurring much increase in costs from tariffs on goods from China because China is devaluing its currency in order to offset any such increase. In this way, it’s China that’s paying the cost of the tariffs. To what extent is that true?
Krugman: We have numbers on this! If China were bearing the tariff, the price of imports to the United States from China would be falling a lot. They aren’t. All the evidence says that United States consumers are bearing the tariffs, and that Navarro is just making stuff up.
Michael：纳瓦罗宣称美国并没有因为贸易战而多付钱，而是中国贬值了人民币。从这个角度来说是中国在承担关税的代价。这种说法在多大程度上讲是正确的？
KP：关于这一点我们有数据。如果是中国在承担关税，那么从中国出口的商品价格会下降许多。但实际上并没有。所有的证据表明美国的消费者在承担关税，纳瓦罗仅仅是捏造事实。[考虑到川普也是这样说，也就是说川普在捏造]

Barbara De Matteo, Setauket-East Setauket, N.Y.: Does anyone look at his family’s investment moves when Trump makes these trade announcements? I am curious about the impact on their wealth when he makes these seemingly arbitrary announcements. I wonder if this is all one big strategy for him.
Krugman: Everything suggests that Trump is using his office to enrich himself. But I think it’s a lot cruder than that — more about extortion (don’t expect any favors unless you book my hotels) than stock market manipulation. It’s a sort of corruption Occam’s razor: never assume sophistication when crude thuggery is sufficient.
Barbara：有人对川普的家庭财富在这些仿佛随机的声明之中的变化感到好奇吗？我怀疑这对他自己而言是一个战略？
KP：所有事实都暗示了川普在利用他自己的权利让他自己更富有。我个人认为比操纵股市更简单粗暴，更像敲诈勒索：除非订我的酒店否则不要想任何好处。这是一种奥卡姆剃刀式的腐败：当暴行足够的时候不要去想得太复杂[也就是说川普这件事情是再明白不过]。

Jan Saver, Brussels: Is it possible to put a value on certainty — or uncertainty?
Additionally, I think there is a significant cost attached to giving up the rules-based trading system, which the United States should try to factor in. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and World Trade Organization rules have kept trade conflicts from escalating (tit-for-tat tariffs or, worse, wars). The brakes now seem to be off.
Krugman: Really hard to put a number on it, but given what has happened to business investment despite huge tax cuts, it looks as if the costs are pretty big. As I said in the column, the costs of the trade war have surprised even those of us who opposed Trump’s policies.
Jan：这种确定或不确定会不会有价值？此外，我认为如果我们放弃现有的贸易体系的代价会很高。这也是美国需要考虑到的因素。一般的协议和世贸组织已经有解决冲突的规则，但是x这个方法貌似失效了。
KP：实际上很难定量这个代价（cost），我可以假设尽管大量减税的情况下会发生什么。看上去这个代价会很大。

Rickard Waern, Göteborg, Sweden: What are the ramifications of Trump’s trade war on the global economy? Is there a risk of recession?
Krugman: The trade war is hurting, but nothing I see is big enough to produce a global recession, at least so far. At worst, it’s a contributing factor to a bunch of other things that may be weakening the world economy — nothing remotely on the scale of, say, the late 2000s housing bust.
Those other things, by the way, include a Chinese slowdown that some of us have been predicting for years and finally seems to be happening; the troubles of Europe, which have a lot to do with a drastic slowdown of population growth; and, maybe, shifts in United States business that have moved us toward technology companies that don’t need to do a lot of physical investment. Again, on their own, none of these things are huge, but collectively they add up.
Richard：川普的经济对全球经济有什么难以预料的结果？有没有经济衰退的风险？
KP：贸易战正在伤害经济，但是，我没有看到对全球经济会有很大的影响。往最坏的情况说，贸易战也仅仅是减弱世界经济的一个因素，xx。
其他事情，包括今天出现的中国的经济变缓我们几年前就预测到了；欧洲的问题，因为很多因素比如人口引起的经济剧烈变缓的问题，也许，到美国xx。再一次说，这些事情都单个虽然不是很大，但是加在一起就不好说了。
